Call for Chapters
Information Systems Research in Vietnam (Volume 4): A Shared Vision and New Frontiers
Introduction
The fourth edition of this Springer book continues to highlight the dynamics of Information Systems (IS) research and practices in Vietnam. It is based on the success of previous editions of the book, that has established a shared vision of what we, as the whole IS research community, currently have. This edition advances Vietnam's IS research stories with a recognition of substantial challenges and opportunities from the emerging technologies and digital business. This book aims to provide a collection of advanced IS research, cases, and applications, which address the challenges and seize the opportunities in the context of Vietnam. It supports not only Vietnamese academics yet international academics, who want to engage with the context of Vietnam. Readers can also compare the context of IS applications between Vietnam as a developing country and other developed countries.
We welcome premium quality submissions that focus on advanced IS research in the context of Vietnam, including cases, applications, and studies on future IS directions, and how to ensure our research can be designed to meet the current IS research trends. In addition to the traditional IS research topics, we welcome design science research advancing the development of innovative IS artifacts. We also welcome real-world case studies on IS design, implementation, and/or adoption by organizations in Vietnam.
This edition also highlights two emerging and critical themes: Digital Transformation and AI applications. Both themes have offer significant values in different sectors in Vietnam, including retail, manufacturing, education, e-government, and healthcare. We believe that IS research can contribute great profound impacts on these themes.
Editors
Dr. Nguyen Hoang Thuan, RMIT University Vietnam
Dr. Duy Dang-Pham, RMIT University Vietnam
Dr. Le Hoanh-Su, University of Economics and Law, VNUHCM
Dr. Minh Nguyen, Florida Atlantic University
Topics of interest (but are not limited to):
Emerging Information Systems Research
Chapters in this track include both empirical and conceptual research on one or more of the topics listed below. Chapters that focus on the Vietnam context or provide a comparison between the Vietnam context and other countries are especially preferred.
Digital transformation
IS in sustainable development
Digital Platforms and Ecosystems
AI and Data Analytics
Gen AI and Agentic AI
Human-AI collaboration
Blockchain applications
Cybersecurity and Privacy
Digitalization for value creation
Healthcare information systems
e-Government and smart cities
Information systems design and business process management 
IS education, pedagogy, and Digital learning
Social media, digital and mobile commerce
Computational and data-driven IS
IS methods
Other emerging topics in the information systems discipline
Design science research
Chapters in this track present design science research focusing on developing innovative IS artifacts
New methods in design science 
Design process, tools and methodologies
Evaluation of design science research
Design science and cross-disciplinary research
Theorizing in design science research
Emerging technologies and tools in design science research
Design research applying novel technologies
Design research for relevant applications areas
Design science education
Design Science in IS Research
Information Systems Case Studies
Chapters in this track present research 
Demonstration of how digital transformation shape new business models and opportunities
Demonstration of successful digital transformation in Vietnam
Application of digital technologies for sustainable development
Examples of successful design and implementation of digital technologies
Important dates
Chapter submission: 				15th April 2026
Chapter notification: 					30th June 2026
Re-submission of chapter: 				31th July 2026
Chapter notification for re-submission: 		31th August 2026
Camera-ready: 					30th September 2026
Estimated publication date: 				End of 2026 or Early 2027
How to submit 
Chapter submission
Download the template here, or zip file (the template adapts Springer template). 
Chapter must be from 10 to 14 pages in Springer format
Originality: Submitted chapter must be original, unpublished work not previously published in a journal or conference, nor currently under review or consideration for publication elsewhere
As all chapters will be blind peer-reviewed, chapter submitted MUST NOT contain any information on the author(s) and affiliations. Chapters submitted for review not being anonymous will be rejected without review.
Based on the peer reviews, Acceptance and Rejection decisions will be finalized by the Editors
The chapter may contain the following (but not limited to)
Title and abstract
Introduction, including objectives and contributions of the research
Literature review
Methodology/Method 
Results or anticipated results 
References are not included in the word count
Access EasyChair (https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=vietnamisrbook2026) to upload your chapter
Editor Board
We are grateful for the support of colleagues and friends supporting this project on the editorial board.
Bidyut Hazarika, RMIT University, Vietnam
David Johnstone, Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand
Ho Trung-Thanh, University of Economics and Law -VNUHCM, Vietnam
Khoa Bui Thanh, Industrial University of Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam
Robert McClelland, RMIT University, Vietnam
Pedro Antunes, University of Lisbon, Portugal
Pham Cong Hiep, RMIT University, Vietnam
Pham Nguyen Anh Huy, RMIT University, Vietnam
Nguyen Thi Thu An, RMIT University, Vietnam
Tram T. B. Nguyen, RMIT, Australia
Thi Tran, Binghamton University, USA
Hong Huan Nguyen, Independent Researcher, USA
Truong (Jack) Luu, University of Cincinnati, USA
Trinh Nguyen-Phan, University of British Columbia, Canada
Van-Hau Nguyen, Deakin University, Australia
Thuy-Tien Nguyen, Auckland University of Technology, New Zealand
Van-Ho Nguyen, KU Leuven, Belgium
Le Thi Kim Hien, University of Economics and Law -VNUHCM, Vietnam
To join the Editorial/Review board for the book, email Dang Pham Thien Duy at Duy.DangPhamThien@rmit.edu.vn.
For more information, please access: https://infosys-vietnam-book.github.io/ 
